Nikita Sapozhnikov

Skills: Java, Python, SQL, Linux, probability theory, machine learning.
Date of birth: 9 March 1987
e-mail: earlzero@gmail.com

Work Experience.

2015-2017 Software Engineer II at AOL/Oath. I've been working on two demand forecasting platforms
ONE DSP and BrightRoll DSP. On ONE DSP I've been solving the problems on different parts of the system starting from
implementing new algorithms, solving the scaling issues to CICD and encryption (SSL). I've participated in the migration of this platform from AOL Data Centers to AWS. Results of this migration were presented by me at TechPulse in Sunnyvale at December'2017.

On BrightRoll DSP I did the assesment of the system. Later I was solving scaling issues and modified the ETL pipeline written in Oozie/Pig.

During my time at AOL/Oath I got extended experience of interacting with remote teams. For example, we had 5 hours difference with ops team and 8 hours difference with the data science team.

Technologies used: Java, Gradle, Jenkins, Pig, Spark, Python.

2012-2015. Software Developer at Yandex. I joined development team of 
traffic-forecasting project for an advertising platform (ETL-modifications, activemq-based 
mechanism for state transfer in support of multi-master, refactoring legacy code). 
I started development of RTB-based forecasting platform as a part of the team. I have 
worked on various aspects of architecture of multi-master (activemq, zookeeper, RMI), 
maintaining installation system (based on deb-packages), maven configuration (build 
system is complicated due to environment requirements), system optimization, 
Vaadin-based gui, ETL and porting some legacy modules. I completed research on 
forecasting winning bids for RTB-platform (Real-Time Bidding).
Next project was RTB-host proxy for mobile advertising (Vert.x-based). 
Most recents tasks include big data processing on proprietary map/reduce framework and 
machine learning (with scikit-lean, vowpal wabbit).
Languages: Java, Python, SQL, bourne shell. 
Libraries and technologies: Spring, JMS (ActiveMQ), ETL (Talend), Octave, NIO, Fork/Join 
framework, Hibernate, Vert.x. 
Database: MySQL, MS SQL, Cassandra, MongoDB. 

2011-2012 Software Developer at Yuterra (Retail network). I continued development of 
linux-based cash register application, receipt transport. Developed PostreSQL-based 
sharing for receipt storage.
Languages: Java, BeanShell, Groovy, SQL (FireBird and PostreSQL)
Libraries and Techologies: Charva (Swing-like console gui framework), RXTX (access to 
RS-232 from java), JPA, JSP, PrimeFaces, servlets, GWT, ant, EclipseLink.
Database: FireBird, PostgreSQL.

2009-2011 Network Engineer/Leading network engineer in Vympelcom (ISP). 
Responsibilities: network maintenance, projecting, hardware installation and configuration (Cisco, 
D-Link, APC, HP servers), network monitoring (Nagios, Zabbix), linux (at system administrator level). 
During that time I developed some ruby and python scripts for managing and monitoring 
devices over snmp and new devices configuration. Using external geocoding data, google 
maps, tomcat and java I have developed simple map for hardware with notes.

Different distribution of linux (Ubuntu, Debian) were my primary OSes during these years. 
I am quite experienced in console.

Machine Learning. Certificate'2013 from Coursera.org
Algorithms: Designs and Analysis (Parts I and II). Certificate'2013 from Coursera.org
Functional Programming Principles in Scala. Certificate' 2013 from Coursera.org
References.
Available in request.
